What's new in Kotlin 2.4.0 (#5586)
JetBrains/kotlin-web-site: docs/topics/whatsnew/whatsnew24.md

* **Language:** [Stable context parameters, explicit backing fields, and multiple features for annotation use-site targets](#stable-features)
* **Standard library:** [Stabilized support for the UUID API](#stable-uuid-api-in-the-common-kotlin-standard-library) and [support for checking sorted order](#support-for-checking-sorted-order)
* **Kotlin/JVM:** [Support for Java 26](#support-for-java-26) and [annotations in metadata enabled by default](#annotations-in-metadata-enabled-by-default)
* **Kotlin/Native:** [Support for Swift packages as dependencies, updates on Swift export, and the CMS GC enabled by default](#kotlin-native)
* **Kotlin/Wasm:** [Incremental compilation enabled by default and support for WebAssembly Component Model](#kotlin-wasm)
* **Kotlin/JS**: [Support for value class export and ES2015 features in JS code inlining](#kotlin-js)
* **Gradle:** [Compatibility with Gradle 9.5.0](#gradle)
* **Maven:** [Automatic alignment between Java and JVM target versions](#maven)
* **Kotlin compiler:** [More consistent inline function behavior during `.klib` compilation](#consistent-intra-module-function-inlining-during-klib-compilation)

> > For information about the Kotlin release cycle, see [Kotlin release process](releases.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> For information about the Kotlin release cycle, see the [Kotlin release process](releases.md).
```

>
{style="tip"}

## Update to Kotlin 2.4.0

The latest version of Kotlin is included in the latest versions of [IntelliJ IDEA](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/download/)
and [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio).

To update to the new Kotlin version, make sure your IDE is updated to the latest version and [change the Kotlin version](releases.md#update-to-a-new-kotlin-version)
to 2.4.0 in your build scripts.

## New features {id=new-stable-features}
<primary-label ref="stable"/>

In previous Kotlin releases, several new features were introduced as Experimental.
The following features have now graduated to [Stable](components-stability.md#stability-levels-explained) in Kotlin 2.4.0, so you no longer need to opt in to use them:

> * [Context parameters](whatsnew22.md#preview-of-context-parameters), except for [context arguments](#explicit-context-arguments-for-context-parameters) and [callable references](https://github.com/Kotlin/KEEP/blob/context-parameters/proposals/context-parameters.md#callable-references)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Context parameters](context-parameters.md), except for [context arguments](#explicit-context-arguments-for-context-parameters) and [callable references](https://github.com/Kotlin/KEEP/blob/context-parameters/proposals/context-parameters.md#callable-references)
```

> * [`@all` meta-target for properties](whatsnew22.md#all-meta-target-for-properties)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [`@all` meta-target for properties](annotations.md#all-meta-target)
```

* [Swift export goes Alpha with improved concurrency support](#swift-export-goes-alpha-with-improved-concurrency-support)
* [Support for the WebAssembly Component Model](#support-for-the-webassembly-component-model)

## Language

Kotlin 2.4.0 promotes context parameters, explicit backing fields, and annotation use-site targets features to [Stable](components-stability.md#stability-levels-explained).
This release also introduces [explicit context arguments for context parameters](#explicit-context-arguments-for-context-parameters).

### Stable features
<secondary-label ref="language"/>

Kotlin 2.2.0 and 2.3.0 introduced a few language features as [Experimental](components-stability.md#stability-levels-explained). We're happy to announce that the following language features are now [Stable](components-stability.md#stability-levels-explained) in this release:

* [Context parameters](whatsnew22.md#preview-of-context-parameters), except for [context arguments](#explicit-context-arguments-for-context-parameters) and [callable references](https://github.com/Kotlin/KEEP/blob/context-parameters/proposals/context-parameters.md#callable-references)

> * [`@all` meta-target for properties](whatsnew22.md#all-meta-target-for-properties)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [`@all` meta-target for properties](annotations.md#all-meta-target)
```

> * [New defaulting rules for use-site annotation targets](whatsnew22.md#new-defaulting-rules-for-use-site-annotation-targets)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [New defaulting rules for use-site annotation targets](annotations.md#defaults-when-no-use-site-targets-are-specified)
```

    // Function body
}
```

In this example, the compiler generates hidden overloads for the older versions of the `Button()` function.

Since both `@IntroducedAt` and `@JvmOverloads` generate overloads, using them together can cause conflicting overloads.
If you use both annotations, the compiler reports a warning. If you suppress the warning, the compiler prioritizes overloads
generated from the `@IntroducedAt` annotation.

## Standard library

Kotlin 2.4.0 stabilizes support for UUIDs in the common Kotlin standard library. It also adds new extension
functions for converting unsigned integers to `BigInteger` on the JVM and support for checking sorted order.

### Stable UUID API in the common Kotlin standard library
<secondary-label ref="standard-library"/>

Kotlin 2.0.20 introduced a [class for generating UUIDs](whatsnew2020.md#support-for-uuids-in-the-common-kotlin-standard-library)
(universally unique identifiers) and added support for converting between Kotlin and Java UUIDs. Later releases gradually
improved this experimental feature by adding support for:

* [Comparing UUIDs with `<` and `>` operators](whatsnew2120.md#changes-in-uuid-parsing-formatting-and-comparability)

> * [Parsing UUIDs from hex-and-dash and plain text formats](whatsnew2120.md#changes-in-uuid-parsing-formatting-and-comparability)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Parsing UUIDs from hex-and-dash and plain text formats](uuids.md#parse-uuids)
```

* [Returning `null` when parsing invalid UUIDs](whatsnew23.md#support-for-returning-null-when-parsing-invalid-uuids).

In Kotlin 2.4.0, [the `kotlin.uuid.Uuid` API](https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.uuid/-uuid/) becomes [Stable](components-stability.md#stability-levels-explained).
The only exceptions are [the functions for generating V4 and V7 UUIDs](whatsnew23.md#support-for-generating-v7-uuids-for-specific-timestamps), which remain [Experimental](components-stability.md#stability-levels-explained) and still require opt-in.

For more information about how to work with UUIDs, see [UUIDs](uuids.md).

### Support for checking sorted order
<secondary-label ref="standard-library"/>

Kotlin 2.4.0 adds new extension functions for checking sorted order in iterables, arrays, and sequences.

This includes the following extension functions:

* `.isSorted()`
* `.isSortedDescending()`
* `.isSortedWith(comparator)`
* `.isSortedBy(selector)`
* `.isSortedByDescending(selector)`

> You can use these extension functions to check whether elements are already sorted without sorting them again or creating your own helper functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use these extension functions to check whether elements are already sorted, without sorting them again or creating your own helper functions.
```

            freeCompilerArgs += "-Xoverride-konan-properties=minVersion.macos=11.0"
            freeCompilerArgs += "-Xoverride-konan-properties=minVersion.tvos=14.0"
            freeCompilerArgs += "-Xoverride-konan-properties=minVersion.watchos=7.0"
        }
    }
}
```

### Swift export goes Alpha with improved concurrency support
<primary-label ref="alpha"/>

<secondary-label ref="native"/>

Starting with Kotlin 2.4.0, Kotlin's interoperability with Swift through Swift export is officially in Alpha!
This release brings major improvements to concurrency support, adding native and direct structured concurrency to Swift
export and the ability to export `kotlinx.coroutines` flows to Swift.

#### Support for structured concurrency
You can now seamlessly call suspending Kotlin code from Swift. Kotlin [`suspend` functions](composing-suspending-functions.md)
and suspend functional types are exported as Swift's idiomatic `async` counterparts:

```kotlin
// Kotlin
suspend fun hello(): String {
    delay(1000)
    return "Hello Swift! This is Kotlin."
}
```

```swift
// Swift
let msg = try await hello()
```
#### Export of flow types to Swift

> This update also adds support for exporting `kotlinx.coroutines`’ flows to Swift. Flows in `kotlinx.coroutines` represent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This update also adds support for exporting `kotlinx.coroutines`' flows to Swift. Flows in `kotlinx.coroutines` represent
```

```kotlin
// build.gradle.kts
kotlin {
    swiftPMDependencies {
        swiftPackage(
            url = url("https://github.com/firebase/firebase-ios-sdk.git"),
            version = from("12.11.0"),
            products = listOf(
                product("FirebaseAI"),
                product("FirebaseAnalytics"),
                ...
}
```
{validate="false"}

For working samples and more detailed information, see [SwiftPM import](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/multiplatform/multiplatform-spm-import.html).

If your project relies on CocoaPods dependencies, you can migrate the current setup to use Swift packages. The KMP tooling
accounts for this use case and helps you reconfigure the project automatically. For details, see our [CocoaPods migration guide](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/multiplatform/multiplatform-cocoapods-spm-migration.html).

## Kotlin/Wasm

Kotlin 2.4.0 enables incremental compilation for Kotlin/Wasm by default and introduces support for the WebAssembly Component Model.

### Incremental compilation enabled by default
<secondary-label ref="wasm"/>

> Kotlin/Wasm introduced incremental compilation in 2.1.0. Starting with Kotlin 2.4.0, it is [Stable](components-stability.md#stability-levels-explained) and enabled by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kotlin/Wasm introduced incremental compilation in Kotlin 2.1.0. Starting with Kotlin 2.4.0, it is [Stable](components-stability.md#stability-levels-explained) and enabled by default.
```

    }
}
```

### Compiler messages written to Problems API for Kotlin/JVM

In Kotlin 2.2.0, the Kotlin Gradle plugin (KGP) started reporting diagnostics to [Gradle's Problems API](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/reporting_problems.html)
to provide a consistent experience both in Gradle's CLI and in IntelliJ IDEA.

In Kotlin 2.4.0, the plugin also writes compiler messages to the Problems API for Kotlin/JVM, bringing the API closer to
becoming a single source for all logs and messages.

## Maven

Kotlin 2.4.0 makes project configuration even easier with support for Maven Toolchains and automatic alignment between Java and JVM target versions.

### Automatic alignment between Java and JVM target versions
<secondary-label ref="maven"/>

To simplify project configuration and prevent compatibility issues, the Kotlin Maven plugin now automatically aligns the
JVM target version with the Java compiler version configured in the project.

This ensures that the Kotlin and Maven compilers target the same bytecode version, avoiding issues where Kotlin-generated
bytecode is incompatible with the rest of the project or the intended deployment environment.

> With the `<extensions>` option enabled, you don't need the `kotlin.compiler.jvmTarget` property. If it's not already defined,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the `<extensions>` option enabled, you don't need to set `kotlin.compiler.jvmTarget` or `kotlin.compiler.jdkRelease` options. If neither of them is defined,
```

the Kotlin Maven plugin automatically resolves the JVM target version in the following order:

1. As the `maven.compiler.release` version defined either as a project property or within the `maven-compiler-plugin` configuration.

   In this case, both `jvmTarget` and `jdkRelease` compiler options are set for the Kotlin compiler, limiting the API to a specific JDK version.

2. As the `maven.compiler.target` version in case the Maven release version is not set. The compiler target can be defined either as a project property or within the `maven-compiler-plugin` configuration.

>    In this case, only Kotlin's `jvmTarget` is set and the API is not limited to a specific JDK version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   In this case, only Kotlin's `jvmTarget` is set, and the API is not limited to a specific JDK version.
```

This greatly simplifies your Kotlin project configuration, so your `pom.xml` file can look like this:

```xml
<properties>
    <maven.compiler.release>17</maven.compiler.release>
    <kotlin.version>%kotlinVersion%</kotlin.version>
</properties>

<build>
    <plugins>
        <plugin>
            <groupId>org.jetbrains.kotlin</groupId>
            <artifactId>kotlin-maven-plugin</artifactId>
            <version>${kotlin.version}</version>
            <extensions>true</extensions>
        </plugin>
    </plugins>
</build>
```

During the build, the plugin outputs a similar message:

```none
[INFO] Using jvmTarget=17 (derived from maven.compiler.release=17)
```

> The `<extensions>` option only checks project-level properties and the global `maven-compiler-plugin` configuration.
> It doesn't check the configurations defined in the plugin's `<executions>` section.
>
{style="note"}

> For more information about automatic project configuration, see [our documentation](maven-configure-project.md#automatic-configuration).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about automatic project configuration, see [our documentation](maven-configure-project.md#jvm-target-version).
```

* [Configure TeamCity for a KMP app](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/multiplatform/configure-teamcity-for-kmp.html) – Use TeamCity to build, test, and deploy your KMP applications.
* [Recommended serialization approaches for Navigation 3](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/multiplatform/compose-navigation-3.html#recommended-serialization-approaches) – Find the best way to use serialization with Navigation 3 in your CMP application.
* [Multiplatform ViewModel](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/multiplatform/compose-viewmodel.html) – Learn how to set up and work with ViewModels in a multiplatform project.
* [Backend development with Kotlin](server-overview.md) – Explore the different frameworks you can use for backend development.
* [Create a task manager app with Spring Boot and Claude](spring-boot-claude.md) – Learn how Claude can help you create an app with Spring Boot from scratch.

> * [Configure a Maven project](maven-configure-project.md) – Introduce Kotlin to your existing Java Maven project or create a new Kotlin Maven project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Configure a Maven project](maven-configure-project.md) – Set up Kotlin compilation in your existing Java Maven project or in a new Kotlin Maven project.
```

* [Test Kotlin projects with Maven](jvm-test-maven.md) – Learn how to create tests with JUnit and use Maven plugins to run unit and integration tests.

> * [Use annotation processors in Kotlin projects](jvm-annotation-processors.md) – Understand when to use kapt or KSP to process annotations in your backend project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Use annotation processors in Kotlin projects](jvm-annotation-processors.md) – Choose between kapt and KSP to process annotations in your backend project.
```
